The Network and Sharing Center has been around in Windows for several versions.
It's still here in Windows 10,
and what it allows you to do is see at a glance what your connections are.
For instance,
you see on this screen I'm connected to an Active
Directory domain called company.
pri, and I also am connected to another network that has the public profile.
We'll talk a little bit more about network location awareness in a moment,
but basically the idea of locations in your network
settings deal with firewall profiles and how restrictive
you feel that connection should be.
I guess we've gotten here sooner than I thought.
The Network Location Awareness service, or NLA, is pretty important.
It's actually a couple of separate services.
If you look at the screenshot of an elevated PowerShell console,
I'm running Get-Service against the DisplayName *location*.
I intentionally made that search fuzzy because I wanted
to bring back both the NLA service, Network Location Awareness,
and the Geolocation Service.
Don't get them confused.
Many applications in Windows 10 can use Geolocation.
Network Location Awareness is simply to associate your network interfaces,
wired and Wi-Fi, with firewall profiles.
And, again,
the point there is you may have different security requirements
based on the context in which you access a network.
For instance,
your home settings are bound to be a lot more permissive than
the settings you would have out in public,
say, at a public Wi-Fi hotspot.
Speaking of firewall, here is the classic Control Panel,
the Windows Defender Firewall.
Now notice that subtle name change.
Historically,
the built-in software firewall in Windows has been Windows Firewall.
In Windows 10 it's called Windows Defender Firewall.
This is because we have all of our Windows Defender features,
the anti-malware client, and so forth, in the Windows Defender Security Center,
as we went over earlier in the course.
But this slide is good because it shows you in the
interface the different locations.
Domain, if you're connected and joined to an Active Directory domain,
private networks, and public networks.
Those are the two built in that a consumer can actually choose.
The first time one of your network connections comes up,
you'll be asked by Windows, do you want to share resources or not,
and the way you answer that question, yes or no,
is going to determine whether your network connection gets
associated with a private or lower-security profile,
or guest or public, the higher-security profile.
Now, yes,
you can change the location profile associated with network connections,
but it's not anywhere near intuitive unfortunately.
Check the exercise files and I give you some remedial help there.
If you're thinking, wow, this is something I want to control as a herd.
If you're a system administrator, you're going to need,
or you're going to want to control network location awareness,
firewall profiles, and firewall, centrally,
and that's absolutely right on.
This is a screenshot from the Group Policy Editor,
and you can see under the path, Computer Configuration,
Administrative Templates, Network, Network Connections,
Windows Defender Firewall, you can customize settings on a per-profile basis.
There's also another location in Group Policy where you can manage the Windows Defender Firewall Control Panel specifically.